791. Custom Sort String

You are given two strings order and s. All the characters of order are unique and were sorted in some custom order previously.

Permute the characters of s so that they match the order that order was sorted. More specifically, if a character x occurs before a character y in order, then x should occur before y in the permuted string.

Return any permutation of s that satisfies this property.

 

Example 1:

Input:  order = "cba", s = "abcd" 

Output:  "cbad" 

Explanation: "a", "b", "c" appear in order, so the order of "a", "b", "c" should be "c", "b", and "a".

Since "d" does not appear in order, it can be at any position in the returned string. "dcba", "cdba", "cbda" are also valid outputs.

Example 2:

Input:  order = "bcafg", s = "abcd" 

Output:  "bcad" 

Explanation: The characters "b", "c", and "a" from order dictate the order for the characters in s. The character "d" in s does not appear in order, so its position is flexible.

Following the order of appearance in order, "b", "c", and "a" from s should be arranged as "b", "c", "a". "d" can be placed at any position since it's not in order. The output "bcad" correctly follows this rule. Other arrangements like "bacd" or "bcda" would also be valid, as long as "b", "c", "a" maintain their order.

 

Constraints:

1 <= order.length <= 26
1 <= s.length <= 200
order and s consist of lowercase English letters.
All the characters of order are unique.


Explanation:

1. Create an unordered_map m to store the frequency of characters in s.

2. Iterate through the characters of s and update their frequencies in the map m.

3. Initialize an empty string ans to store the result.

4. Iterate through the characters in order. For each character:
   - While the frequency of the character in m is greater than 0, append the character to the ans string and decrement its frequency in m.

5. Iterate through the remaining characters in m. For each character:
   - While its frequency is greater than 0, append the character to the ans string.

6. Return the result string ans.


Time complexity = O(n + order.length()) = O(N)
space complexity = O(26) = O(1).